Plan your schedule using a calendar or planner.
Study at your own pace, even if it is slower than someone else's.
Getting a good night’s sleep is better than cramming at the last minute.
Turn off your cell phone when you need to focus.
Relax while you study, whether that be through exercise (during breaks) or deep breaths.
If listening to music while studying, try to listen to quieter or less intense music.
Choose a place to study where it is not too comfortable, nor too distracting.
Don’t turn on Youtube or Netflix in the background during a study session, even if you can multitask.
Listen to relaxing sounds in the background while studying.
Snack while studying, but make sure that snacks are healthy.
Choose and stick to a study method that helps you, depending on if you prefer visuals, auditory, etc.
Highlight key concepts in readings to help you remember them.
Annotate your readings with summaries, connections, and questions.
Create flashcards to memorize several terms or concepts efficiently.
Teach others concepts you are studying to help improve your own memorization.
Take breaks to help you refresh (see above).
Take notes in class and study these notes the same day to improve retention.
Exercise before going on a long study session.
Start with the toughest assignments, no matter how daunting they seem.
Join a study group or create one with your peers.
Don't spend too long trying to perfect one project or assignment.
Keep buffers when planning your schedule to expect the unexpected.
Don't do multiple tasks at once, as this will decrease the quality of your output.
Take notes on paper, rather than on a computer, to increase retention.
Try to understand why something is, rather than just memorize it.
Read out loud when a text has complicated or technical language.
When stuck, explain your work to an inanimate object step by step (i.e. rubber ducking).
Don’t turn on Youtube or Netflix in the background during a study session, even if you can multitask.
Highlight key concepts in readings to help you remember them.
If you find yourself procrastinating, just do a task for five minutes at first.
Start with the toughest assignments, no matter how daunting they seem.